what ought to be genuine?
what ought to be at all?

the question asks for "it" - what itself [is] the why it ought to be at all
and it should be as obvious as "identity" ("non contradiction") - the most obvious of them all
as once one has seen identity, there is no question left on "whether it is" or "why it holds", as it is intelligible - it is, and it is obviously itself - it itself the why it holds
but even identity is not "it" - what itself the why it ought to be, there is nothing intrinsic of identity that tells the why

and it should not be "unity" nor "the be" nor "pure relation" or "spirit" or ... - not those "whether" at all
as it (the whether) is told always with a resounding "yes", on "whether" unity or be or relation or ... holds
whether any is one, is a unit, unities, unified, and then pure unity itself, is/are? is to be seen as obvious, but unity itself is not the why there is then "what is lively" (the world), there is nothing intrinsic in unity itself that tells why what is lively ought to be

for the better candidate is the "be" - as in "what is, is at all to 'be'", in so far as "what just is" alone is nonsense (as it is dead, not lively, not the why what is lively ought to be) (like the pure unity that "just is")
for the be is told analogically as the imperative, the final cause - "be!" "let there be worlds!" "let there be difference!" - even the french is happy with it (as it is not "violent")
what is, is at all to be - it seems like we have told the why it ought to be lively, but, crucially put "it seems"
further more, nothing intrinsic of the be tells, again, the why it ought to be at all

let "the be" be, let there be "the eternal" - this is the authority that sustains any of the candidates thereof up to now, the authority borrowed from the affirmation of "whether it is at all" as a disguise of the true question that asks for "it" - the why it ought to be at all (what itself the why it ought to be)
an authority only ever as far as the yes of the "whether it is at all" as told, for "eternity" itself cannot mean more than that

for "we are" thus "whether it is" is told, where they then conflate the "it is" (the yes of the whether) into "it just is" with the help of "that's about it"
while fail to tell that the yes itself does not tell that "it's it", that "that's about it"
for "it is" itself only tells as far as the fact that "the it itself is the why it ought to be", not that the "is" itself is the "it", nor that "it just is", nor the what that it is
thus we ask "it is what?"
the question asks for "it", not for some placeholder or a re affirmation of its "magic" (the "it is", the "it is lively", the "it itself is the why it ought to be" ... it all)

for as long as it is not incoherent, it is, and this is the whether, but this is told only as a fact, not the why
nothing in unity or the be ... tells that it ought to be, while it indeed is, as it is coherent
the whether is not to be conflated with what it itself is, for the is itself is not even the why, as it wholly is just another name for the whether

what "it" is, itself is the why it ought to be

thus now, either we tell/see what the question asks for, or not
